Create monthly-february-2020.md (#131)
tikv/website: content/blog/monthly-february-2020.md

# This Month in TiKV - February 2020

TiKV authors

March 12, 2020

> 

Reviewer: These are metadada. Please look at existing files on how to write them @WT-Liu

> As the cold winter has passed, we are welcoming a beautiful spring with blossoms, gentle breeze, and of course our monthly TiKV update, covering February 2020.

Reviewer 2: I love it!

Let’s get started!

### Releases

> This month our team made 2 TiKV releases (3.0.10 and 4.0.0- beta.1). The 3.0.10 release is a minor one with bug fixes and the 4.0.0- beta.1 release includes compatibility improvements, 2 new features, and bug fixes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This month our team made 2 TiKV releases (3.0.10 and 4.0.0-beta.1). The 3.0.10 release has only bug fixes; the 4.0.0-beta.1 release includes compatibility improvements, two new features, and bug fixes. 
```

What are the new features?

[@TennyZhuang](https://github.com/TennyZhuang) together with [Fullstop000](https://github.com/Fullstop000), [haoxiang47](https://github.com/haoxiang47) and [@hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) wrote the article [How We Reduced Multi-region Read Latency and Network Traffic by 50%](https://pingcap.com/blog/how-we-reduced-multi-region-read-latency-and-network-traffic-by-50/), introducing their project of optimizing multi-region network bandwidth and read latency in TiKV server at TiDB Hackathon 2019. 

### Notable PRs

*   [@BusyJay](https://github.com/BusyJay) upgraded thread pool to support yield in [#6487](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6487), making tasks handled more fairly.
*   [@kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm) added backup data support to S3 storage on 3.1 version in[ #6536](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6536).
*   [@BusyJay](https://github.com/BusyJay) introduced pre-transfer leader to make raft leadership transfer more smoothly in [#6539](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6539).

> *   [@5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers) added command observer to observe executed command in the apply thread pool in[ #6602](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6602). This is the preparation for CDC (capture data changes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   [@5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers) added command observer to observe executed command in the apply thread pool in[ #6602](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6602). This is in preparation for CDC (capture data changes).
```

*   [@sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf) used the unified thread pool in [#6593](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6593) to handle point get requests and coprocessor requests.

*   [@nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) verified online reload new [TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) certificate in [#2162](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2162).
*   [@Luffbee](https://github.com/Luffbee) introduced a solution-based balance solver in [#2141](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2141).

*   [@iosmanthus](https://github.com/iosmanthus) upgraded DAG framework in [#5871](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/5817), making TiKV never fallback to the volcano model mode.
*   [@TennyZhuang](https://github.com/TennyZhuang) supported new index encoding with collation support in [#6685](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6685).

> *   [@youjiali1995](https://github.com/youjiali1995) made it possible to return values when pessimistic lock successfully to reduce RPC in [#6696](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6696).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   [@youjiali1995](https://github.com/youjiali1995) made it possible to return values with successful pessimistic lock responses to reduce network traffic in [#6696](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/6696).
```

### Notable issues

**Help wanted issues** (mentoring available)

[@yiwu-arbug](https://github.com/yiwu-arbug) suggested setting `write_global_seqno=false` for file ingestion in [#6501](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6501) and he opened the issue [#6502](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6502), requesting to evaluate dictionary compression for RocksDB.

**Call for participation**

[@overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) opened issue [#6734](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6734), requesting to update PD member information every 10 minutes in order to minimize the time window of holding stale information.

[@hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) suggested in [#6666](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6666) that  we  should remove `shared_block_cache` from `engine_trait::KvEngines` to simplify `KvEngine::flush_metrics` and he clarified 2 reasons for this suggestion. We have seen one vote up. What’s your opinion?

> [@yiwu-arbug](https://github.com/yiwu-arbug) created [#6506](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6506) and [#6507](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6507) and [@Little-Wallace](https://github.com/Little-Wallace) created [#6508](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6508) to ask if some students would be interested in participating in [GSoC](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) by working on these projects. Follow these issues if you are interested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[@yiwu-arbug](https://github.com/yiwu-arbug) and [@Little-Wallace](https://github.com/Little-Wallace) created [#6506](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6506), [#6507](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6507), and [#6508](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/6508) to ask if students would be interested in participating in [GSoC](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) by working on these projects. Follow these issues if you are interested.
```

### New Contributors

We'd like to welcome the following new contributors to TiKV and thank them for their work!

*   [@silathdiir](https://github.com/silathdiir)
*   [@xinhua5](https://github.com/xinhua5)
*   [@Poytr1](https://github.com/Poytr1)

If you'd like to get involved, we’d love to invite you to participate in the[ TiDB Challenge Program](https://pingcap.com/blog/tidb-usability-challenge-dare-to-dream-bigger/) and you might be interested in starting from some easy tasks at [the TiKV project](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/projects/20). If you don't know how to begin, please leave a comment and somebody will help you out. We're also very keen for people to contribute to documentation, tests, optimizations, benchmarks, refactoring, or other useful things.

### This Week in TiDB

For more detailed and comprehensive information about TiDB and TiKV, we have weekly updates. The following cover February.

[January 20 ~ February 02, 2020](https://pingcap.com/weekly/2020-02-03-tidb-weekly/)

[February 03 ~ February 09, 2020](https://pingcap.com/weekly/2020-02-10-tidb-weekly/)

[February 10 ~ February 16, 2020](https://pingcap.com/weekly/2020-02-17-tidb-weekly/)

> [February 17 ~ February 23, 2020](https://pingcap.com/weekly/2020-02-24-tidb-weekly/)

Reviewer 2: Can you make these a bulleted list please?

---
title: This Month in TiKV - February 2020
date: 2020-03-12

> author: TiKV authors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: TiKV Authors
```
